Hi. I’m Armando.
Welcome to “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
We’ve all been there.
We’re out in the ministry
trying to start conversations with people.
But for many of us, it’s not that easy.
Just the idea of talking to a stranger
can be intimidating.
Personally, I’m not someone who finds it easy
to just walk up to a stranger
and start a conversation.
But with some effort and time,
I’ve learned a few methods
that have helped me to overcome my fears.
Today, we’re going to concentrate
on just one of them:
using questions to start
and maintain a conversation.
And perhaps by the time we’re done,
you’ll realize like I have
that it’s not as difficult as it seems.
Hi, there.
Ah, well, we’re asking
our neighbors a question,
and we’d like to know your opinion.
Have you ever asked yourself
what we need to do to have a happy family?
No. I’m not married.
Oh, ah, OK.
Well, we have this brochure
that talks about . . .
OK, three things:
First, the brother was nervous.
When we’re nervous, we make
the person we’re speaking with nervous too.
Of course, it’s difficult not to be nervous,
but if we concentrate too much
on how we feel,
we can forget that what we want to do
is simply to start a conversation.
There’s no pressure; just keep it casual.
Second, yes, the brother did ask a question,
but the question was irrelevant
to the householder.
It’s usually better to ask something
that will encourage the person
to participate in the conversation
but will also help us to discern
what interests them.
Third, one of the biggest fears we have is,
What if my question
doesn’t connect with them?
This can throw us off.
We feel like we have nowhere to go.
It would have been better
to have a flexible approach
that would allow us to react
according to what the person says.
Let’s try it again,
but this time let’s approach the situation
a little differently.
In the first few pages of our Bible,
there are 20 questions
that we can use in the ministry.
Why not start familiarizing ourselves
with them?
We can choose
one or two subjects that we like
so that we will be ready
when an opportunity arises.
Let’s see how our brother does this
in the next demonstration.
Hi, there.
We’re asking our neighbors a question,
and we’d love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something
that causes you a lot of stress?
Personally, I worry a lot about money
and paying all my bills.
Yeah, I think that’s the case for many of us.
Did you know
that the Bible explains something
that can help us specifically
with that anxiety?
Really?
In the front of my Bible,
there are 20 questions that many of us ask
and that the Bible answers.
Notice question 16,
“How can you cope with anxiety?”
Notice what this scripture says
in Proverbs 21:5:
“The plans of the diligent . . .”
Much better, right?
Did you notice that when the person answered,
the brother simply opened his Bible
to the questions
and found a scripture that allowed him
to continue the conversation?
And he didn’t try to hide what he was doing.
He showed the person the tool he was using.
He felt confident
that however the person responded,
he would be able to find a useful scripture
that would keep the conversation moving.
So that went pretty well,
but maybe you’re thinking,
‘It almost never happens like that for me.’
Perhaps in our case,
it’s more like this.
Hi, there.
We’re asking our neighbors a question,
and we’d love to know your opinion.
What would you say is something
that causes you a lot of stress?
People coming to my door
and asking me questions.
I understand.
I’m not a fan of that myself.
But have you ever wondered why we do this?
Now, at this point, the householder
may shut down the conversation completely.
And that’s fine. We’re not trying to pressure
anyone into talking.
But that second question
that the publisher asked
and the fact that he was calm,
that he was relaxed,
and that he was not taking himself
too seriously
—all of that can open the door
for the conversation to continue.
To sum up, remember:
First, be calm and relaxed.
We’re just trying to start a conversation.
Smile; be friendly.
Second, ask a question
that brings a person into the conversation
and allows us to discover
what interests them.
And third, don’t be nervous
about where the conversation could lead.
With our 20 questions for the ministry,
we can be sure
that we’ll find an appropriate text
that will keep the conversation
directed toward spiritual matters.
This is one of the methods
that has helped me,
and I hope that it can help you too
as you see for yourself
how “iron sharpens iron.”